[draft] transfer to object (#106)
MystenLabs/move-book: book/src/storage/transfer-to-object.md

# Transfer to Object

Previously, we have explained how [transfer](./storage-functions.md#transfer) works in relation to
accounts. However, there is an additional behaviour allowed by the

> [Sui Object Model](./../object/object-model.md) - transferring objects to other objects. If certain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Sui Object Model](./../object/object-model.md) &mdash; transferring objects to other objects. If certain
```

conditions are met (which we explain in this section), objects can be sent to and _received_ from
other objects.

<div class="warning">

> Warning: recipient object must be implemented in a way that allows receiving. Attempt to send an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Warning: the recipient object must be implemented in a way that allows receiving. Attempt to send an
```

object to an object that does not implement receiving can result in asset loss.

</div>

## Background

Every object in Sui has its own `UID` which is represented by the

> [address type](./../move-basics/address.md). This address can be used to query the object's data,

Reviewer 2: This may be a bit confusing to folks, because depending on context, an object's ID can be represented by a `UID`, `ID`, or `address` type. On this page the `address` representation is the most interesting/novel one, but in other circumstances (e.g. for dynamic fields) `UID` is more interesting, and in other circumstances (e.g. ID pointer) `ID` is more interesting.

Here seems like the wrong place to discuss this concept in detail, but it seems like something we should document somewhere.

and to perform account queries, such as getting the list of owned objects. This property of the
system lays the foundation for the transfer to object feature.

> In this section, by _object address_ we mean the address value stored in the `UID` of the object.

## Transfer to Object

An object can be transferred to another object by calling the `transfer` function, or its public
version - `public_transfer`. The behaviour is identical to the transfer to account.

```move
// File: sui-framework/sources/transfer.move
module sui::transfer;

public fun transfer<T: key>(object: T, recipient: address) {}
public fun public_transfer<T: key + store>(object: T, recipient: address) {}
```

## Receiving Objects

While objects _owned by accounts_ can be used in the transaction directly (given that the sender of
the transaction is the owner), objects transferred to other objects first need to be _received_
through their owner. The owner object needs to implement a custom function that will call the

> `receive` function from the `transfer` module.

Reviewer 2: I'm so-so on the phrase "the owner object needs to implement..." because it sounds like interface implementation which is not a concept we have in Move. It also puts the focus on the custom receive function, and I'm not sure that's the focus for the object doing the receiving (the only thing that matters for the receiving object is that it exposes its `&mut UID`, but it's probably a good idea for that to be done in a limited way that means you can only use it for specific purposes). A custom receive function is more important for dealing with the object being transferred -- because if that object does not have `store`, it needs a custom function to call `receive` on it.

Author: Yeah, I also had this feeling, and I don't like it. The biggest blocker I faced on every attempt.

Reviewer: On a related note, I got tripped up with the transition to this code block, again because it wasn't immediately clear whether the below was an example of some code that I would have to write myself.

Reviewer: One possible way to approach explaining this might be to say that you can transfer an object to any address, including the address of an object. In order for the receiving object to /do/ anything with the transferred object, it needs to get a reference to the object, and `receive` is how it does that (I don't think the word "reference" is actually correct here).

```move
// File: sui-framework/sources/transfer.move
module sui::transfer;

/// Special type which cannot be constructed in Move but can be passed as a
/// special input to a PTB.
public struct Receiving<phantom T: key> has drop {
    id: ID,
    version: u64,
}

/// Private receiving function for `key`-only objects.
public fun receive<T: key>(parent: &mut UID, to_receive: Receiving<T>): T { /* ... */ }

/// Public receiving function for `key + store` objects.

> public fun public_receive<T: key + store>(parent: &mut UID, to_receive: Receiving<T>): {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public fun public_receive<T: key + store>(parent: &mut UID, to_receive: Receiving<T>): T {
```

  /* ... */
}
```

> The `Receiving` type is a special type that references an object-owned object. It cannot be

Reviewer: I think including this part in the example would be very helpful - I don't yet see how the end-to-end process of transferring works. e.g. if Alice wants to transfer an object to a PostOffice owned by Bob, does Bob have to execute a PTB that constructs a `Receiving` and hands it to the `PostOffice`'s `receive` function?

constructed in Move, and can only be passed as a special input to a
[Programmable Transaction Block (PTB)](../concepts/what-is-a-transaction.md). The `receive` (or
`public_receive`) function must be called in order to exchange the `Receiving` instance for the
actual object.

While this may seem overwhelming, we will demonstrate the feature in a simple example.

## Example

> To demonstrate the feature, let's consider a simple `PostOffice` object that can receive any objects
> transferred to it. Given that the transfer itself can be performed on the PTB level, or in a Move
> function, we will focus on the receiving part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To demonstrate the feature, let's consider a simple `PostOffice` object that can receive any objects
transferred to it. Given that the transfer itself can be performed by either a PTB or a Move
function, we will focus on the receiving part.
```

```move
module book::post_office;

// While the `sui::transfer` module is implicitly imported, the `Receiving` type
// is not. We need to import it explicitly.
use sui::transfer::Receiving;

/// The `PostOffice` object that can receive any objects transferred to it via
/// a custom `receive` function.
public struct PostOffice has key {
    id: UID,
}

/// Voila! The `receive` function can now be called on the `PostOffice` object
/// to receive any objects transferred to it.

> public fun public_receive<T: key + store>(

Reviewer: I wonder if it would be clearer if this function wasn't named `receive`? Again going back to the "implements" discussion above, people might think this name is special.

Reviewer 3: Sorry to chime in an internal discussion, but I got sort of the same question. For an object to be able to receive other objects it HAS TO have a struct method called `public_receive` or just a struct method, doesn't matter how is called, that will handle the object and call to `transfer::public_receive`.

Also not sure where to mention this, but I feel like it would be really good to compare this to DOFs. My best guess right now is that dofs are for attaching specific objects to others in the module defining the outer object, while transfer to object will be for the developer allowing anyone who's able to obtain a mutable reference to the object to deposit anything on it. Very different purposes, but since both end up with an object wrapped into another I really feel it's worth clarifying.

    po: &mut PostOffice,
    to_receive: Receiving<T>
): T {
    transfer::public_receive(&mut po.id, to_receive)
}

> /// For objects without `store` (though, they would require special handling), we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// For objects without `store` (though they would require special handling), we
```

/// can implement the non-public version of the `receive` function.

> public fun receive<T: key>(po: &mut PostOffice, to_receive: Receiving<T>): T {

Reviewer: I'm very confused about the non-public receive here. I don't understand the connection between whether or not something has `store` and whether the `receive` function is public. I also don't have a clear picture of which I should use under what conditions.

    transfer::receive(&mut po.id, to_receive)

> }

Reviewer 2: Does this work? I would expect it to fail because of custom transfer rules (the non-`public_` receive is being called on type `T` from a module that does not define `T`).

```

In this example, we have defined a `PostOffice` object that can receive any objects transferred to

> it. We ommitted the creation of the `PostOffice` for brevity; additionally, an implementation like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it. We omitted the creation of the `PostOffice` for brevity; additionally, an implementation like
```

this would require some authorization to prevent unauthorized claims. We talk about authorization
patterns in the [Advanced Programmability](./../programmability/) chapter.

## Limitations

Transfer to Object must be used with caution, as the recipient object must be implemented in a way

> that allows receiving. Worth noting, that objects owned by other objects must be taken by value, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that allows receiving. It is worth noting that objects owned by other objects must be taken by value, and
```

cannot be borrowed as references, unlike objects owned by accounts.

Transfer to Object is not the only way to create a relationship between objects. There are more

> flexible and feature-rich ways, such as the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
flexible and feature-rich ways, such as
```

> [Dynamic Fields](./../programmability/dynamic-fields.md), which we explore in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[dynamic fields](./../programmability/dynamic-fields.md), which we explore in the
```

> [Dynamic Fields](./../programmability/dynamic-fields.md), which we explore in the

Reviewer 4: I do not know if this is the place for this comment, however as dynamic fields are referenced here, here it is:
Something that comes up a lot:
> Should I use dynamic fields or TTO?

One major difference is that one does not need to have ownership of the owner-object in order to transfer an object to it.
Dynamic fields on the other hand can be seen as having more "control" on what is added "below" the owner object.

Author: Been thinking about it a lot and still don't have an answer. Technically, in the book, it is too early to mention dynamic fields (they come mid next chapter), yet dynamic fields are too far from transfer to object. Very good point, and very much worth discussing!

Reviewer 2: In my mind it's not really an either/or of TTO vs dynamic fields. TTO is about transfer, dynamic fields are about ownership -- i.e. it's perfectly valid to have a protocol where you use TTO to transfer something to an object, and then when it is received, it is turned into a dynamic field on the object it was received on.

Author: @amnn I agree that they're not replacing each other (though, in some situations they do), but more of a guide which one is suited for which purpose.

[Advanced Programmability](./../programmability/) chapter.

## Summary

- Objects can be transferred to other objects by calling the `transfer` function.
- The recipient object must be able to `receive` transferred objects, otherwise the objects may be
  lost.
- The `Receiving` type is a special type that references an object-owned object. It is passed as a
  special input to a transaction and cannot be constructed dynamically.

> - Once received, the object can be used normally, including being transferred again, even to the

Reviewer: I don't think the "including being transferred again" part was discussed above, so it probably shouldn't be mentioned in the summary.
